Transformer is one of the most
versatile deep learning models.
It is successfully applied to a number
of tasks both in NLP and beyond.
Let me show you a few examples.
>> Speaker 2: In this video you will see a
brief overview of the diverse transformer
applications in NLP.
Also, you will learn about
some powerful transformers.
First, I'll mention the most popular
applications of transformers in NLP.
Then you'll learn what are the state
of the art transformer models,
including the so called text to text
transfer transformer, T5 in shorthand.
Finally, you will see how useful and
versatile T5 is.
Since transformers can be generally
applied to any sequential
task just like RNNs,
it has been widely used throughout NLP.
One very interesting and
popular application is
automatic text summarization.
They're also used for autocompletion,
named entity recognition,
automatic question answering,
machine translation.
Another application is chatbots and
many other NLP tasks like
sentiment analysis and
market intelligence, among others.
Many variants of transformers
are used in NLP and as usual,
researchers give their
models their very own names.
For example, GPT-2 which stands for
generative pre-training for
transformer, is a transformer
created by OpenAI with pretraining.
It is so good at generating text that news
magazines the economists had a reporter
ask the GPT-2 model questions as if
they were interviewing a person,
and they published the interview
at the end in 2019.
Bert, which stands for
bidirectional encoder representations from
transformers and which was created
by the Google AI language team,
is another famous transformer used for
learning text representations.
T5, which stands for
text-to-text transfer transformer and
was also created by Google,
is a multitask transformer that can do
question answering among
a lot of different tasks.
Let's dive a little bit
deeper into the T5 model.
A single T5 model can learn to
do multiple different tasks.
This is pretty significant advancement.
For example, let's say you want to
perform tasks such as translation,
classification, and question answering.
Normally, you would design and train
one model to perform translation, and
then design and train a second model
to perform classification, and
then design and train a third model
to perform question answering.
But with transformers,
you can train a single model that is
able to perform all of these tasks.
For instance, to tell the T5 model that
you wanted to perform a certain task,
you'll give the model an input string of
text that includes both the task that
you want it to do, as well as the data
that you want it to perform that task on.
For example, if you want to translate
the particular English sentence,
I am happy from English to French,
you would use the input string translates
English into French colon I am happy.
And the model would be able to
output the sentence [FOREIGN],
which is the translation
of I'm happy in French.
This is an example of classification over
here, where input sentences are classified
into two classes, acceptable when
they make sense and unacceptable.
In this example, the input string
starts with cola sentence,
which the model understands
is asking it to classify
the sentence that follows this
command as acceptable or unacceptable.
For instance, the sentence he
bought fruits and is incomplete and
then is classified as unacceptable.
Meanwhile, if we give the T5
model this input cola sentence,
he bought fruits and vegetables.
The model classifies he bought fruits and
vegetables as an acceptable sentence.
If we give the T5 model the input starting
with the word question over here,
followed by a colon, the model then knows
that this is a question answering example.
In this example,
the question is which volcano in Tanzania
is the highest mountain in Africa?
And your T5 will output the answer to that
question, which is Mount Kilimanjaro.
And remember that all of these tasks
are done by the same model with no
modification other than the input
sentences, how cool is that?
Even more, the T5 also performs tasks
of regression and summarization.
Recall that a regression model is one
that outputs a continuous numeric value.
Here you can see an example of regression
which outputs the similarity between
two sentences.
The start of the input string Stsb
will indicate to the model that
it should perform a similarity
measurement between two sentences.
The two sentences are denoted by
the words sentence1 and sentence2.
The range of possible outputs for this
model is any numerical value ranging from
zero to five, where zero indicates that
the sentences are not similar at all and
five indicates that
the sentences are very similar.
Let's consider this example when
comparing the sentence 1, cats and
dogs are mammals with sentence 2,
these are four known forces in nature,
gravity, electromagnetic,
weak, and strong.
The resulting similarity level is zero,
indicating that the sentences
are not similar.
Now let's consider this other example.
Sentence1, cats and dogs are mammals.
And sentence 2, cats, and dogs,
and cows are domesticated.
In this case,
the similarity level may be 2.6 if you
use a range between zero and five.
Finally, here you can see
an example of summarization.
It is a long story about all
the events and details of an onslaught
of severe weather in Mississippi,
which is summarized just as
six people hospitalized after
a storm in Attala county.
This is a demo using T5 for
trivia questions so
that you can compete
against a transformer.
What makes this demo interesting is
that T5 was trained in a closed book
setting without access to
any external knowledge.
So these are examples where I
was playing against the trivia.
All right, so in this video you saw what
are the transformers applications in NLP,
which range from translations
to summarization.
Some transformers include GPT,
BERT and T5.
And I also showed you how versatile and
powerful T5 is,
as it can perform multiple tasks
using tech representations.
>> Speaker 1: Now you know why we need
transformers and where it can be applied.
Isn't it astounding this one model
can handle such a variety of tasks?
I hope you are now eager to
learn how transformers works.
And that's what I will show you next.
Let's go to the next video.